+++
title = 'Analysis and results of the second sheep war'
date = 2024-02-21T01:11:23Z
draft = false
+++

# Tensions rise

After the first human-sheep war, tensions seemed to die down between the two species. By the year 2053, trade began between the sheep and the humans. The moose had control of Canada and the northern U.S, the emus controlled australia, and the sheep had what remained of what was agreed on by the sixth treaty of Paris. As trade emerged, humans began to see sheep as potential allies instead of threats, as shown by the rising popularity of vegetarianism. In fact, the sheep began diplomatic relations with the humans, and began lowering tariffs on goods. Tensions, however, began to emerge as radicalized humans began to plot to take back the land that they used to own. This was largely instigated by the pigs, who had recieved nothing from the sixth treaty of Paris, and wanted revenge and land. They hoped to begin another war and conquer what remained after. Tensions began to grow, especially after an ambassador from NATO sent a sheep a blanket as a present, a grave insult in their culture. To add insult to injury, the ambassador was not reprimanded for his conduct. Finally, in the year 2060, anti-sheep riots broke out in the Netherlands, Wales, and Russia. This had vast consequences on sheep opinions of humans, and the sheep began to arm for war. Unknown to the humans, the sheep base of operations in Sealand had still not been disarmed, and weapons of mass destruction had been shipped there. At the same time, the humans began arming up, preparing for war. Potatoes to began being produced on industrial scales, and the entire industrial might of east Asia was being utilized to make weapons. 

# The war begins

In April of 2062, human general Arthur Machelivitz found plans of a supposed sheep plot to attack on July 31st. These plans were in fact falsified by the pigs, who hoped to begin a war. He alerted his superiors, and they prepared to fend off a sheep assault at Djibouti, in Africa. As troops were located there, they saw a merchant ship. An unknown soldier fired at the ship, and it exploded. This shot sparked outrage with the sheep, moose, and emus, and they launched an assault on the humans on August 1st, 2062.

# The invasion of China

On August 1st, 2062, the sheep attacked China. This move had been planned for several reasons, including the fact that taking China would slow the human's industrial capabilities, but the main reason was that China was the world's largest producer of potatoes, necessary to feed the armies of the humans. The sheep, however, were overconfident, having won the previous war with few defeats, and only sent a small portion of their army to take China. This proved to be a mistake, however, as the humans predicted that China would be a major target for the sheep, and prepared accordingly. At first, the sheep, who attacked from the southeast coast had victories, such as the taking of Hong Kong, Fuzhou, and Changsha. They also took the geopolitically controversial nation of Taiwan. The sheep, however, began to slow, and at the battle of Wuhan, on August 22, general Dwight Franklin lead a daring counterattack and stopped the sheep advance. The sheep were then subjected to attacks from the air, and on September 12th, they began their retreat. This was considered a victory, but, while the sheep were retreating, they adopted a scorched earth policy and released a strain of *Phytophtora infestans* that threatened the human food supply. 

# The human invasion of Australia

While in the previous war, the humans were on the defensive, in the second human-sheep war, the humans began a counterattack, trying to drag the sheep out of the land they had previously conquered. On August 3rd, 2062, the humans began the invasion of Australia. They started the invasion in Darwin, Australia, and began an advance southward, aiming for Canberra. They easily conquered Southern Australia, as well as the Northern Territory, encountering minimal resistance. Finally, on August 25th, the humans reached Canberra. The sheep set up a desperate last ploy, trying to drop paratroopers behind the humans, but were foiled. At the second battle of Canberra, the humans took the city with minimal loss and began to march against Western Australia. At this point, the Emus, who had been largely neutral at this point, began a counterattack on the humans, driving them back. The emus launched a guerilla war, engaging in hit and run tactics, and drove the humans back to Tennant creek. At this point, both sides had been driven back to around the area where they started the war.

# Attack of the pigs

After several years of similar fighting, with neither side gaining any land, both sides were weakened. The bacteria released by the sheep, a strain of *Phytophtora infestans*, had damaged the humans' food supply, and the sheep, of which there were significantly less than the humans, were running out of willing soldiers. Their previous allies that were the moose and emus were largely neutral, with the only major exeption being the moose when they drove the humans back in the invasion of Australia. Eventually, in August of 2066, both sides decided on talks for a peace treaty. As both sides were as weak as they would ever be, the pigs decided that this would be the time to attack. On August 23, 2066, the pigs mounted two seperate attacks, the first on New Zealand, and the second on Wales.

# The pigs' quick defeat

The pigs' first (and last) battles ended quickly, as they overreached their capabilities, even in the first battles. They sent 100,000 pigs to assault a stronghold of sheep in New Zealand, and were quickly surrounded and repulsed. In Wales, the pigs lasted longer, but were driven out by soldiers who knew the land. The humans and sheep quickly ratified a treaty and attacked the pigs, encircling their stronghold in Moscow. On January first, 2067, the pigs folded, and the sheep-human war, or the sheep-pig-human war ended.
